# About the Project
This project takes the Atwood Machine problem that physics students encounter during Classical Mechanics and generates random yet realistic numbers with the Python programming language. This tool can be useful for instructors, as it allows them to quickly and easily generate numbers for student homework problems. 
## Two Files and Their Uses
The repository contains two files for the code. The main file, RAMachine_FinalVersion.py, contains all of the code for the RAMachine() function that users will call to generate the randomized Atwood Machine problems. The second file, RAMachine_Example.py, gives example code of how a user might use the RAMachine() function to generate the Atwood Machine numbers, print these generated numbers, and pull the numbers from the returned dictionaries to assign them to variables for use in additional code.
## Jupyter Notebook Origins
As this project was written using Jupyter Notebook, there may be some Jupyter Notebook exclusive code. The one that is known is the display() function used to display the attached SVG images. To accommodate for this, a print message has been included that points users to the correct file used for visually referencing the generated Atwood Machine.
## Disclaimer for Error Messages
In the main file, the code for the RAMachine() function contains an xturn test and a tturn test. If failed, the code will print an error message and the values generated should be discarded. These tests were put in place to catch the occasional instances where the numbers look to be physically consistent but, in actuality, the acceleration, initial velocity, and times are such that the turning point for the block exceeds the length of the string, where the turning point refers to the points at which the block changes its direction of motion.
## Units Units Units
Consistent units have been attached in the final print messages where all variables generated and chosen are returned to the user. The typical (metric) units used for force, velocity, and acceleration were chosen: kilograms(kg) for mass, meters(m) for distance/length, and seconds(s) for time. However, this does not mean a user is restricted to these units. It just means that the user must undertake unit conversions or assign a different set of physically consistent units.
